.TH OCCI 1 "August 2014" "CESNET" "Ruby OCCI"


.SH NAME
occi \- Open Cloud Computing Interface Client


.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBocci\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]


.SH DESCRIPTION
Client implementation of the Open Cloud Computing Interface in Ruby.


.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fP--action\fR \fIACTION\fR
Action to be performed on a resource instance, required.

.TP
\fB-c\fR, \fP--ca-path\fR \fIPATH\fR [/etc/grid-security/certificates]
Path to CA certificates director.

.TP
\fB-d\fR, \fP--debug\fR
Enable debugging messages.

.TP
\fB-e\fR, \fP--endpoint\fR \fIURI\fR [http://localhost:3000]
OCCI server URI.

.TP
\fB-g\fR, \fP--trigger-action\fR \fIACTION\fR
Action to be triggered on the resource, formatted as SCHEME#TERM or TERM.

.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fP--help\fR
Show this message.

.TP
\fB-j\fR, \fP--link\fR \fIURI\fR
URI of an instance to be linked with the given resource, applicable only for action 'link'.

.TP
\fB-l\fR, \fP--log-to\fR \fIOUTPUT\fR [stderr]
Log to the specified device, only: {\fBstdout\fR|\fBstderr\fR}.

.TP
\fB-M\fR, \fP--mixin\fR \fIIDENTIFIER\fR
Identifier of a mixin, formatted as SCHEME#TERM or SHORT_SCHEME#TERM.

.TP
\fB-n\fR, \fP--auth\fR \fIMETHOD\fR [none]
Authentication method. Only {\fBx509\fR|\fBbasic\fR|\fBdigest\fR|\fBnone\fR}.

.TP
\fB-f\fR, \fP--ca-file\fR \fIPATH\fR
Path to CA certificates in a file.

.TP
\fB-F\fR, \fP--filter\fR \fICATEGORY\fR
Category type identifier to filter categories from model. Must be used together with the \fB-m\fR option.

.TP
\fB-k\fR, \fP--timeout\fR \fITIMEOUT\fR
Default timeout for all HTTP connections, in seconds.

.TP
\fB-m\fR, \fP--dump-model\fR
Contact the endpoint and dump its model.

.TP
\fB-o, --output-format FORMAT\fR [plain]
Output format, only: {\fBjson\fR|\fBplain\fR|\fBjson_pretty\fR|\fBjson_extended\fR|\fBjson_extended_pretty\fR}.

.TP
\fB-p\fR, \fP--password\fR \fIPASSWORD\fR
Password for basic, digest and x509 authentication.

.TP
\fB-r\fR, \fP--resource\fR \fIRESOURCE\fR
Term, identifier or URI of a resource to be queried, required.

.TP
\fB-t\fR, \fP--attribute\fR \fIATTRIBUTE\fR
An "attribute='value'" pair, mandatory attributes for creating new resource instances: [occi.core.title].

.TP
\fB-T\fR, \fP--context\fR \fICTX_VAR\fR
A "context_variable='value'" pair for new 'compute' resource instances, only: {\fBpublic_key\fR|\fBuser_data\fR}.

.TP
\fB-s\fR, \fP--skip-ca-check\fR
Skip server certificate verification [NOT recommended].

.TP
\fB-u\fR, \fP--username\fR \fIUSER\fR [anonymous]
Username for basic or digest authentication.

.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fP--version\fR
Show version.

.TP
\fB-x\fR, \fP--user-cred\fR \fIFILE\fR [~/.globus/usercred.pem]
Path to user's x509 credentials.

.TP
\fB-X\fR, \fP--voms\fR
Using VOMS credentials; modifies behavior of the X509 authN module.

.TP
\fB-y\fR, \fP--media-type\fR \fIMEDIA_TYPE\fR [text/plain,text/occi]
Media type for client <-> server communication. Only: {\fBapplication/occi+json\fR|\fBtext/plain\fR,\fBtext/occi\fR|\fBtext/plain\fR|\fBtext/occi\fR}.

.TP
\fB-z\fR, \fP--examples\fR
Show usage examples.


.SH
EXAMPLES

.SS Quick reference guide

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource os_tpl
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource resource_tpl
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource os_tpl#debian6
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action create --resource compute --mixin os_tpl#debian6 --mixin resource_tpl#small --attribute occi.core.title="My rOCCI VM"
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action delete --resource /compute/65sd4f654sf65g4-s5fg65sfg465sfg-sf65g46sf5g4sdfg

.SS Listing resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource compute
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource network
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource storage
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource os_tpl
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action list --resource resource_tpl

.SS Describing resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource compute
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource network
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource storage
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource os_tpl
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action describe --resource resource_tpl

.SS Creating resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action create [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ [ --mixin mixin_type#mixin_term ]+ --resource compute
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action create [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ [ --mixin mixin_type#mixin_term ]+ --resource network
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action create [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ [ --mixin mixin_type#mixin_term ]+ --resource storage

.SS Linking/unlinking resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action link --resource /compute/instance_id --link /network/instance_id
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action link --resource /compute/instance_id --link /storage/instance_id

.SS Deleting resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action delete --resource compute
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action delete --resource network
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action delete --resource storage

.SS Triggering actions on resources

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_scheme#action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource computeocci --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource compute
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_scheme#action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource networkocci --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource network
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_scheme#action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource storageocci --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --action trigger --trigger-action action_term [ --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value' ]+ --resource storage

.SS Authentication

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ --auth none ]
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth basic [ --username user ] [ --password pass ]
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth digest [ --username user ] [ --password pass ]
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth x509 [ --user-cred /home/user/.globus/usercred.pem ] [ --ca-file /etc/grid-security/certificates/ca.pem ] [ --ca-path /etc/grid-security/certificates ] [ --voms ] [ --password pass ]
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth x509 --user-cred /home/user/.globus/usercred.pem
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth x509 --user-cred /tmp/x509_1000 --voms
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ --auth x509 --user-cred /tmp/x509_1000 --ca-path /etc/grid-security/certificates --voms

.SS Media types

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --media-type application/occi+json
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --media-type text/plain,text/occi
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --media-type text/plain
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --media-type text/occi

.SS Output formats

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --output-format json
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --output-format plain
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --output-format json_pretty
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --output-format json_extended
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --output-format json_extended_pretty

.SS Attribute values (type-casting)

 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --attribute attribute_name='attribute_value'
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --attribute attribute_name='num(attribute_value)'
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --attribute attribute_name='float(attribute_value)'
 occi --endpoint http://localhost:3000/ [ ... ] --attribute attribute_name='bool(attribute_value)'


.SH BUGS
Please report all bugs to EGI-TF rOCCI-cli issue tracker available at
.I https://github.com/EGI-FCTF/rOCCI-cli/issues


.SH AUTHORS
EGI-FCTF, CESNET

GWDG
